# Tips-for-job-seekers-A-careful-choice-towards-right-career-growth
 Every year thousand of candidates reach out to the job opportunities. Some candidates are new to the job scenario so as to gain hands on experience while others with their experience are looking out to enhance their existing knowledge.There are some who even look for a job change. With the rise in population across every market, the competition has raised many folds. In this competition your abilities and knowledge should mark you out from others. Also the selection process is quite rigorous. Making the most of every job opportunity is crucial. You need to portray your profile in a manner that looks just right for the job. Hence, below are a few tips which can come in handy while you are looking for job opportunities.  Effective Resume: The first and most significant document of your skills.  Even before, a company or a consultancy contacts you; they go through your resume first. It gives the impression of your professional and academic expertise. So, it is always good to Explicitly define your details in the resume. Make sure you provide you correct details and check the resume thoroughly during the process to eliminate any errors. Contact Details: Mentioning the contact details that are valid and clear is very important. It is better to put it up in the front for a quick visibility. Also make sure that the contact details that you provide and valid and active. Email ids and phone numbers should be checked regularly for any job offer. Identify your industry: If you have created a profile in a job agency or portal, then make sure you mark the industry and other preferences correctly. Keep your profile updated for companies to notice. The job agencies from time to time provide updates on the open opportunities via email, be sure to keep a close eye on these notifications and apply accordingly. Look for established agencies: Sometimes job agencies provide you with employment opportunity information and other related services which are chargeable. There is certain job agencies which provide quality services in exchange of money but you might end up with certain fake ones too. Before you make any payments, make sure that you double check on the originality of the services and the agency. Be prepared: Now days, the selection process consists of a number of stages. In most cases, the first round of interaction occurs through telephonic conversation. It is better to be prepared for the same. At the same time, you can ask for information regarding the later stages and procedures for a better preparation. Speak Clearly: Never falsify any information in your resume or during the interviews. This is a grave offense to conduct. You might end up getting blacklisted, so refrain from such an act. Finally when you get an interview call, make sure you prep well regarding the job profile and the required information regarding the venue and timings and reach there with time in hand.  These are a few pointers which will help you towards a positive job search and placement.
